Azure SQL database Best Practices: Security

The rules are based on Microsoft best practices and focus on the security issues that present the biggest risks to your database and its valuable data. They cover both database-level issues and server-level security issues, like server firewall settings and server-level permissions. These rules also represent many of the requirements from regulatory bodies to meet their compliance standards. Always consider these on your database,



A firewall that enables you to create firewall rules limiting connectivity by IP address,
Server-level firewall accessible from the Azure portal
Database-level firewall rules accessible from SSMS
Secure connectivity to your database using secure connection strings
Use access management
Data encryption
SQL Database auditing
SQL Database threat detection
Always encrypted


SQL Database controls access with:

Firewall rules that limit connectivity by IP address.
Authentication mechanisms that require users to prove their identity.
Authorization mechanisms that limit users to specific actions and data.


Best practice: Use firewall rules to restrict database access

Detail: The Azure SQL Database service is available only through TCP port 1433. Connections from Azure virtual machines are redirected to an IP address and port that are unique for each worker role. The port number is in the range from 11000 to 11999.

Best practice: Azure Active Directory (AD) authentication

Detail: Recommend the use of Azure AD authentication over the use of SQL Server authentication.

Best practice: if SQL Server authentication used.

Detail: SQL Server authentication cannot use the Kerberos security protocol.

Manage the strong credentials yourself.
Protect the credentials in the connection string.
(Potentially) protect the credentials passed over the network from the web server to the database. For more information, see How to: Connect to SQL Server Using SQL Authentication in ASP.NET 2.0.


Best practice: Discover, classify, and label the sensitive data in your databases.

Detail: Classify the data in your SQL database by enabling Data Discovery and Classification in Azure SQL Database. You can monitor access to your sensitive data in the Azure dashboard or download reports.

Best practice: Track database vulnerabilities so you can proactively improve your database security.

Detail: Use the Azure SQL Database Vulnerability Assessment service, which scans for potential database vulnerabilities. The service employs a knowledge base of rules that flag security vulnerabilities and show deviations from best practices, such as misconfigurations, excessive permissions, and unprotected sensitive data.

Best practice: Enable threat detection.

Detail: Enable Azure SQL Database Threat Detection to get security alerts and recommendations on how to investigate and mitigate threats. You get alerts about suspicious database activities, potential vulnerabilities, and SQL injection attacks, as well as anomalous database access and query patterns.

Best practice: The goal of feature restrictions is to prevent some forms of SQL injection from leaking information about the database, even when the SQL injection is successful.

Detail: One common source of SQL Server attacks is through web applications that access the database where various forms of SQL injection attacks are used to glean information about the database. Ideally, application code is developed so it does not allow for SQL injection. However, in large code-bases that include legacy and external code, one can never be sure that all cases have been addressed, so SQL injections are a fact of life that we have to protect against. The goal of feature restrictions is to prevent some forms of SQL injection from leaking information about the database, even when the SQL injection is successful.

Enabling feature restrictions is done using the sp_add_feature_restriction stored procedure.

Best practice: Encryption of Data. Transparent data encryption encrypts the storage of an entire database by using a symmetric key called the database encryption key.

Detail: Files related to buffer pool extension (BPE) are not encrypted when you encrypt a database by using transparent data encryption. You must use file-system-level encryption tools like BitLocker or the Encrypting File System (EFS) for BPE-related files. If you’re using Azure SQL Database and want to protect sensitive data (such as credit card or social security numbers), you can encrypt databases with FIPS 140-2 validated 256-bit AES encryption. This encryption meets the requirements of many industry standards (for example, HIPAA and PCI).

consider:

Cell-level encryption to encrypt specific columns or even cells of data with different encryption keys.
Always Encrypted, which allows clients to encrypt sensitive data inside client applications and never reveal the encryption keys to the Database Engine (SQL Database or SQL Server). As a result, Always Encrypted provides a separation between those who own the data (and can view it) and those who manage the data (but should have no access).
Row-Level Security, which enables customers to control access to rows in a database table based on the characteristics of the user who is executing a query. (Example characteristics are group membership and execution context.)
Best practice: Azure SQL Database auditing tracks database events and writes them to an audit log in your Azure storage account.

Detail: Auditing can help you maintain regulatory compliance, understand database activity, and find discrepancies and anomalies that might point to business concerns or security violations. Auditing facilitates adherence to compliance standards but doesn't guarantee compliance.



Always Encrypted

Encrypts SQL Server network traffic. This can prevent a man in the middle attach. This will not let SQL network traffic be read by anything other than the intended application.
